Add basic documentation in README.md (#1)
awfm9/flow-dps: README.md

|    R.1    |    Rosetta API support for default balance    |         X        |         X         |                  |                   |    X    |      X     |      X      |        X       |                |                |                   |                    |              |
|    L.1    |        Live Spork support for registers       |         X        |         X         |         X        |                   |    X    |      X     |      X      |        X       |                |                |                   |                    |              |
|    L.2    |         Live Spork support with events        |         X        |         X         |         X        |         X         |    X    |      X     |      X      |        X       |                |                |                   |                    |              |
|    R.2    | Rosetta API support with sub-account balances |         X        |         X         |         X        |         X         |    X    |      X     |      X      |        X       |        X       |        X       |         X         |                    |              |

> |    C.1    |   Cryptographic Verification of local state   |         X        |         X         |         X        |         X         |    X    |      X     |      X      |        X       |        X       |        X       |         X         |          X         |              |

Reviewer: I am wondering what is included in this Milestone (?) 

* The DPS receives registers updates (either from the WAL or per live update). The data source here are Execution Nodes (either directly or indirectly).  Furthermore, the seal (included in the block) contains a state root hash. 

Is this Milestone to confirm that the updated registers have indeed the same root hash as stated in the seal? If this is the case, would it be possible to to move this up, e.g. have a milestone "Cryptographic Verification of Past Spork register values" (right after `P.1`)?  From my perspective, verifying that the local register values actually are consistent with the state root hash (published in the seal) is an important sanity check.

Author: From what I understand, this milestone is indeed to confirm that the updated registers have the same root hash as stated in the seal. I am fine with moving it up. Sounds good to you @awfm9 ?

Author: We ended up removing the `C.1` milestone since it is already implemented as part of `P.1` in the end. We then split the original `C.2` into two milestones: one is cryptographic proofs for registers and the other for events.

Reviewer 2: I realized that replaying the state actually requires validating the trie against the incoming updates at each point, so we already validate the state anyway. However, event verification is not currently supported, as there is no basis to do so yet.

3. The **Mapper** interface is responsible for mapping incoming state trie updates to blocks. Generally, trie updates come in by chunk, so each block maps from zero to multiple trie updates. Once a block is mapped to its respective trie updates, the mapper forwards the information to the indexer.
4. The **Indexer** interface is responsible for receiving a set of trie updates for each block and creating the necessary main indexes and auxiliary in the on-disk database. These indexes allow efficient retrieval of the state at arbitrary block heights in the state history.
5. The **Ledger** interface is responsible for providing clean APIs to access the execution state at different block heights and registers. Its implementations use the underlying indexes to emulate the same APIs as the Flow execution node Ledger, or the Rosetta Data API.

### Diagram

The following diagram describes a simple overview of an example where the DPS is reading from two sporks. One of them
is a live one, which sends

> ```text

Reviewer: Would be great, if @m4ksio could confirm that this works: 
<img width="595" alt="Screen Shot 2021-05-04 at 1 18 59 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/26322303/117064785-7f63e300-acdb-11eb-9a6a-4c118fb08e6c.png">

The detail in the current version, which confuses me is:
* My understanding of the `WALMapper` is:
  * the `Filesystem Chain` provides the blocks
  * the arrow from the top (currently coming from `Badger DB`) provides the state updates 
* But in my head, the data sources are:
  *  `LedgerWAL` provides the state updates 
  *  `Badger DB` provides the blocks 

Could it be that `Badger DB` and `LedgerWAL` should be swapped?

Reviewer 3: > But in my head, the data sources are:
> LedgerWAL provides the state updates
> Badger DB provides the blocks

That is correct, those two "chains" are not related (meaning no contraints are in place). Diagram looks correct to me

Author: The arrows are now labelled as to describe what data is being transferred, is it clearer this way?

# Flow Data Provisioning Service

> The Flow Data Provisioning Service aims at providing a scalable and efficient way to access the execution state of past

Reviewer 2: Would read a bit better if you made `past sporks` explicit.

Author: So you mean to have `access the execution state of past sporks and live sporks` instead of `access the execution state of past and live sporks` right? It sounds weird to me to repeat sporks twice in that context.

Reviewer 2: `past and live sporks` sounds strange, because there is only one spork. Probably a clearer way to express this would be `to access the history of the Flow execution state, both for the current live sporks and for past sporks.`

> and live sporks, as well as implementing the Rosetta API standard.

Reviewer 2: `Rosetta API specification, which could serve as the basis for a potential Coinbase integration of Flow.`

Author: ```suggestion
and live sporks, as well as implementing the Rosetta API specification, which could serve as the basis for a potential Coinbase integration of Flow.
```

Past sporks are loaded from the filesystem using Flow's Write-Ahead Log to replay the changes to all registries, and

> updates are pushed directly to the DPS by the execution nodes in order to handle live networks.

Reviewer 2: `The index for past sporks is built using the Flow execution node's key-value store (Badger DB) and on-disk write-ahead log (LedgerWAL).`

Author: ```suggestion
The index for past sporks is built using the Flow execution node's key-value store (Badger DB) and on-disk write-ahead log (LedgerWAL).

For the live spork index, the DPS subscribes to an execution node and receives state trie and transaction event updates over the network.
```

> updates are pushed directly to the DPS by the execution nodes in order to handle live networks.

Reviewer 2: I would break it up into two sentences instead of the `, and`, which makes it a bit confusing.

> updates are pushed directly to the DPS by the execution nodes in order to handle live networks.

Reviewer 2: `For the live spork index, the DPS subscribes to an execution node and receives state trie and transaction event updates over the network.`

> The Flow DPS maintains different specialized indexes for different purposes. One index is used for accessing the entire

Reviewer 2: `multiple specialized indexes`

Author: ```suggestion
The Flow DPS maintains multiple specialized indexes for different purposes. One index is used for accessing the entire
```

Author: Maybe we can even get rid of the `multiple` here, as it's implied by the plural form. WDYT?

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I don't think it adds clarity, but it doesn't hurt to keep it either.

> execution state at any given height, while the other is used to follow the history of a specific registry through time.

Reviewer 2: `while another` (there are more than two, if we are precise)
`a specific Ledger register over time`

Author: ```suggestion
execution state at any given height, while another is used to follow the history of a specific Ledger register over time.
```

> Contrary to Flow's WAL, those indexes allow replaying changes both backward and forward, which enables visualization

Reviewer 2: `Contrary to the execution node's LedgerWAL, the indexes allow random access to the state trie at any block height, which enables state retrieval at any point in history and far beyond the execution node's pruning limit.`

> Contrary to Flow's WAL, those indexes allow replaying changes both backward and forward, which enables visualization
> beyond a network's pruned blocks.

Author: ```suggestion
The DPS also supports a set of custom proxy resources for token vaults and staking/delegating resources. This allows the DPS to track account balances for locked, staked and delegated tokens for accounts which deploy these custom proxy resources.
```

WDYT of using the present tense instead of future tense, in order to keep this relevant in the future and not have to change the tense as we implement features?

Another role of the DPS is to provide information about atomic transactions which are not normally generated by Flow, by
locally running Cadence scripts on the copy of the execution state. This makes it possible to link an account with its

> staked balance, locked token vaults etc. and to expose that information in the API.

Reviewer 2: `The DPS will also support a set of custom proxy resources for token vaults and staking/delegating resources. This will allow the DPS to track account balances for locked, staked and delegated tokens for accounts which deploy these custom proxy resources.`

|    C.1    |   Cryptographic Verification of local state   |         X        |         X         |         X        |         X         |    X    |      X     |      X      |        X       |        X       |        X       |         X         |          X         |              |
|    C.2    |  Cryptographic Proofs for remote state access |         X        |         X         |         X        |         X         |    X    |      X     |      X      |        X       |        X       |        X       |         X         |          X         |       X      |

## Architecture

### Components

The Flow Data Provisioning Service is constituted of three main components.

The **indexer** is at the core of the service. It indexes deltas into its own data structures and provides a low level
API to expose its state.
The **mapper** synchronizes the **indexer** with a source of deltas (`FilesystemChain` or `NetworkChain`.)
The **chain** is in charge of fetching block sequence data (from a WAL in the filesystem for past sporks, or a network

> socket for live ones.)

Reviewer 2: ```
The Flow Data Provisioning Service is organized into five different components, each with their own interface to accomplish their well-delineated responsibility.

1. The **Chain** interface is responsible for reconstructing a view of the sequence of blocks, along with their meta data. It allows the consumer to step from the root block to the last sealed block, while presenting height, block identifier and state commitment for each step. The file i/o version will do so by using the execution node's on-disk key-value store, while the network version will rely on data retrieved from access nodes.
2. The **Streamer** interface is responsible for streaming in-order trie updates from different sources; the file i/o version will read them from the LedgerWAL, while the network version will receive trie updates through its network subscription on the execution node.
3. The **Mapper** interface is responsible for mapping incoming state trie updates to blocks. Generally, trie updates come in by chunk, so each block will map from zero to multiple trie updates. Once a block is mapped to its respective trie updates, the mapper forwards the information to the indexer.
4. The **Indexer** interface is responsible for receiving a set of trie updates for each block and creating the necessary main indexes and auxiliary in the on-disk database. These indexes will allow efficient retrieval of the state at arbitrary block heights in the state history.
5. The **Ledger** interface is responsible for providing clean APIs to access the execution state at different block heights and registers. They use the underlying indexes to emulate the same APIs as the Flow execution node Ledger, or the Rosetta Data API.
```

Author: ```suggestion
The Flow Data Provisioning Service is constituted of three main components.

1. The **Chain** interface is responsible for reconstructing a view of the sequence of blocks, along with their meta data. It allows the consumer to step from the root block to the last sealed block, while presenting height, block identifier and state commitment for each step. The file i/o version does so by using the execution node's on-disk key-value store, while the network version relies on data retrieved from access nodes.
2. The **Streamer** interface is responsible for streaming in-order trie updates from different sources; the file i/o version reads them from the LedgerWAL, while the network version receives trie updates through its network subscription on the execution node.
3. The **Mapper** interface is responsible for mapping incoming state trie updates to blocks. Generally, trie updates come in by chunk, so each block maps from zero to multiple trie updates. Once a block is mapped to its respective trie updates, the mapper forwards the information to the indexer.
4. The **Indexer** interface is responsible for receiving a set of trie updates for each block and creating the necessary main indexes and auxiliary in the on-disk database. These indexes allow efficient retrieval of the state at arbitrary block heights in the state history.
5. The **Ledger** interface is responsible for providing clean APIs to access the execution state at different block heights and registers. Its implementations use the underlying indexes to emulate the same APIs as the Flow execution node Ledger, or the Rosetta Data API.
```

WDYT of getting rid of the future tense here too? Also on the last part, I replaced `They use` which I assumed meant `The implementations of the Ledger interface` with `Its implementations`. SGTY?

### Diagram

The following diagram describes a simple overview of an example where the DPS is reading from two sporks. One of them
is a live one, which sends

```text
┌─────────────────┐
│                 │
│   Past Spork    │
│                 │
│  ┌───────────┐  │             ┌───────┐
│  │           │  │             │       │
│  │ Exec Node ├──┼────────────►│ WALog │
│  │           │  │             │       │
│  └───────────┘  │             └───┬───┘
│                 │                 │
│                 │                 │

> └─────────────────┘                 │

Reviewer 2: The first step in this part of the diagram would be `LedgerWAL` and `Badger DB`. `LedgerWAL` would feed into the `WALStreamer`, and `Badger DB` would feed into the `FSChain`.

Author: I'm not sure what you mean exactly? Would it be the following

```
LedgerWAL -> WALStreamer 
BadgerDB -> FSChain -> WALStreamer
WALStreamer -> Index
```

What would feed into BadgerDB?

Author: Also shouldn't it be called WALMapper instead of streamer, to stay consistent with the LiveMapper and the components?

Reviewer 2: BadgerDB is a source, not a destination.

                                    ▼
                      ┌─────────────────────────────┐
                      │  FSChain / LedgerWALMapper  │
                      ├────────────▼▼▼──────────────┤
                      │                             │                          ┌──────────┐
                      │                             │  `GET /account/balance`  │          │
                      │  DATA PROVISIONING SERVICE  │◄─────────────────────────┤  Client  │
                      │          INDEXER            │                          │          │
                      │                             │                          └──────────┘

>                       │                             │

Reviewer 2: In terms of API, there would be three different ones:

1. Raw API: retrieve a value (`[]byte`) by key (`[]byte`) at a given height (`uint64`).
2. Ledger API: respond to a query (`*ledger.Query`) with a value (`ledger.Value`) at a given pathfinder version (`uint8`). The `ledger.Query` contains a state commitment (`ledger.State`) that can be mapped to the height.
3. Rosetta API: this doesn't need to go into the docs, it's fully documented on their own site: https://www.rosetta-api.org/docs/AccountApi.html and https://www.rosetta-api.org/docs/BlockApi.html in this case.

Author: So you think the diagram should show all three APIs represented? I can do that, but it might take quite some space.

Reviewer 2: I'll leave it up to your judgement.

                      ├────────────▲▲▲──────────────┤
                      │  NetworkChain / LiveMapper  │
                      └─────────────────────────────┘
                                    ▲
                                    │
┌─────────────────┐                 │
│                 │                 │
│  Live Network   │                 │
│                 │                 │
│  ┌───────────┐  │                 │
│  │           │  │  `POST /block`  │
│  │ Exec Node ├──┼─────────────────┘
│  │           │  │
│  └───────────┘  │
│                 │
│                 │

> └─────────────────┘

Reviewer 2: On this part, there is indeed an execution node, with a `publish` socket. I'm not really sure what the `POST /block` is about; there are two updates pushed by the execution node: `trie updates` and `transaction events`. Both would feed into the `Live Mapper`.

The missing part here is that there is also an `access node`, and the `NetworkChain` would request `block headers` from its GRPC API.
